Questions:
1.Explain what Laravel's query builder is and how it provides a simple and elegant
way to interact with databases.

Ans: Laravel's query builder is a set of classes and methods that provide
     a simple and elegant way to interact with databases. Here some example of method is
     select, where, join, groupby, having, first(), value(), put(), find(), pluck(),
     join, insert, update, delete, insertOrIgnore(), insertGetId() etc.



2.Write the code to retrieve the "excerpt" and "description" columns from
the "posts" table using Laravel's query builder. Store the result in the $posts variable.
Print the $posts variable.

Ans:    $posts = DB::table('posts')
                ->select('excerpt', 'description')
                ->get();
        return $posts;


3.Describe the purpose of the distinct() method in Laravel's query builder.
How is it used in conjunction with the select() method?

Ans: The distinct() method in Laravel's query builder is used to retrieve
     only unique values from a specific column in the database table.
     Example: $distinctValues = DB::table('posts')
                ->select('title')
                ->distinct()
                ->get();


4.Write the code to retrieve the first record from the "posts" table where
the "id" is 2 using Laravel's query builder. Store the result in the $posts variable.
Print the "description" column of the $posts variable.

5.Write the code to retrieve the "description" column from the "posts" table where
the "id" is 2 using Laravel's query builder. Store the result in the $posts variable.
Print the $posts variable.

6.Explain the difference between the first() and find() methods in Laravel's query builder.
How are they used to retrieve single records?

7.Write the code to retrieve the "title" column from the "posts" table using Laravel's query
builder. Store the result in the $posts variable. Print the $posts variable.

8.Write the code to insert a new record into the "posts" table using Laravel's
query builder. Set the "title" and "slug" columns to 'X', and the "excerpt" and
"description" columns to 'excerpt' and 'description', respectively. Set the "is_published"
column to true and the "min_to_read" column to 2. Print the result of the insert operation.

9.Write the code to update the "excerpt" and "description" columns of the record with
the "id" of 2 in the "posts" table using Laravel's query builder. Set the new values
to 'Laravel 10'. Print the number of affected rows.

10.Write the code to delete the record with the "id" of 3 from the "posts" table
using Laravel's query builder. Print the number of affected rows.

11.Explain the purpose and usage of the aggregate methods count(), sum(), avg(), max(),
and min() in Laravel's query builder. Provide an example of each.

12.Describe how the whereNot() method is used in Laravel's query builder.
Provide an example of its usage.

13.Explain the difference between the exists() and doesntExist() methods in
Laravel's query builder. How are they used to check the existence of records?

14.Write the code to retrieve records from the "posts" table where the "min_to_read"
column is between 1 and 5 using Laravel's query builder. Store the result in the $posts
variable. Print the $posts variable.

15.Write the code to increment the "min_to_read" column value of the record with
the "id" of 3 in the "posts" table by 1 using Laravel's query builder. Print the number
of affected rows.
