Description:

In this assignment, you will be working with a fictional database of a company named "XYZ Corp." 
The database contains two tables, employees and departments. Your task is to write SQL commands to retrieve and manipulate data 
from these tables.





a. Write a query to select all columns and rows from the employees table.
Ans: 
    select * from employees;

explanation: this query use to select all data from table.


b. Write a query to select only the name and salary columns of all employees with a salary greater than 50000.
Ans:
    SELECT name,salary
    FROM employees
    WHERE salary>50000;

explanation: here we found our required data with condations.


c. Write a query to calculate the average salary of all employees.
Ans:
    SELECT AVG(salary)
    FROM employees;

explanation: Here we found our result using mysql built in function.


d. Write a query to count the number of employees who work in the "Marketing" department.
Ans:
    SELECT COUNT(*) as NumberOfEmployee
    FROM employees
    WHERE department_id = 2;

explanation: Here we insert Marketing department in department table with id 2 and use count alies as NumberOfEmployee.


e. Write a query to update the salary column of the employee with an id of 1001 to 60000.
Ams: 
    UPDATE employees
    SET salary = 60000
    WHERE id = 1001;

explanation: update a single row with condation. 

f. Write a query to delete all employees whose salary is less than 30000.
Ans: 
    DELETE FROM employees
    WHERE salary < 30000;

explanation: Delete data with condation.






 
Use the departments table to answer the following questions:

a. Write a query to select all columns and rows from the departments table.
Ans: 
    select * from departments;

explanation: this query use to select all data from table.


b. Write a query to select only the name and manager columns of the "Finance" department.
Ans:
    SELECT name, manager
    FROM departments
    WHERE name='Finance';

explanation: custom search query with condation. 

c. Write a query to calculate the total number of employees in each department.
Ans:
    SELECT department_id, COUNT(*) as totalEmployees
    FROM employees
    GROUP BY department_id;

explanation: we can also use join but here we can find using dpt id. 

d. Write a query to insert a new department called "Research" with a manager named "John Doe".
Ans: 
    INSERT INTO departments (name, manager)
    VALUES ('Research', 'John Doe');

explanation: insert data. 

